1. the closing material of the first half constitutes a microtonal ascent of at
most six pitches. the material appears in the first half of the piece in two or
three places prior to the full statement at the end of the first half. each
appearance starts at an anchor pitch (E4) that is the same each time it
appears. the first appearance of the material presents only the anchor pitch
and the pitch that immediately follows the anchor as a type of prolonged
two-note slur. successive appearances of the material ascend increasingly
greater nubmers of pitches. the notes of the ascent are each long enough to
lose the sense of counting and reenter the sensation of color. the pitches all
project forcefully and are presented ponticello. the final note of the sequence
at the end of the first half of the piece is present subito flautando to break
completely the ponticello color of presentation and sink even further into a
secondary underlying color revealed as having undergirded the material the
entire time. the last note is also 30 or 40 seconds and undergoes an extensive
diminuendo under a fermata lunghissima. the five or six pitches of the ascent
span only [E4, F#4]. the last note is F#4. however once the F#4 is hit and the
subito flautando set in there is a gliss from F#4 to A#4 that pairs with the
dimimuendo and fermata lunghissima. and in fact the A#4 is then held as a
constant pitch for at least 15 or 20 seconds. so the last pitched sound of the
first half is A#4.

2. pivot material is all rendered in A#4.

3. second half opens on B1.

4. the three voices of the first half all carry minor tenth ranges. the lowest
voice spans [B1, D3]; the middle voice spans [F2, Ab3]; and the upper voice
spans [B2, D4].

5. the rhythmic characterization of the three voices of the first half is such
that the lowest voice carries the notes with by far the longest durations; the
upper voice carries notes that are moderately long; and the middle voice
carries notes that stream together sometimes rather more quickly.

6. there are characteristic regions of interaction between the three voices of
the first half. there is a region of interplay between the outer voices (with
the lower voice sounding notes of considerable duration and the upper voice
sounding notes that move marginally more quickly); probabaly 1-2 (and sometimes
3) notes per statement in the lower voice and 1-3 (and sometimes 4-5) notes per
statement in the upper voice when the lower and upper voices truly
interplay. there's a region of interplay between the upper two voices (with the
middle voice sounding streams of notes and the upper voice interpolating
slower-moving statements); the middle voice has a characteristic animation
of 2-4 faster-moving notes followed by 2-4 slower-moving notes; the upper voice
continues to sound 1-3 (and sometimes 4-5) notes per statement. there's a
region of interplay between the lower two voices with the same profiles of
animation as given above. and there's at least one region of interplay between
all three voices.

7. what is the order of regions of interplay between voices in the first half?
(1) middle alone; (2) middle & lower; (3) lower alone; (4) lower & upper; (5)
upper alone; (6) upper & middle; (7) upper, middle & lower; (8) lower & 
middle; (9) lower alone.

8. at what points does the closing material foreshadow? during (3) lower alone,
during (5) upper alone and during (7) upper, middle & lower. (so during
odd-numbered stages.) then the closing material appears in full after (9) lower
alone.

9. what will be the proportions of the nine stages relative to each other?
    1: (1) middle
    1: (2) middle & lower
    1: (3) lower
    1: (4) lower & upper
    1: (5) upper
    1: (6) upper & middle
    1: (7) upper, middle & lower
    1: (8) lower & middle
    2: (9) lower
so relatively even proportion of stages except for stage 9.