SHAPE

1. first stage of ascent up string IV (from ordinario to just before the dead
zone immediately in front of the bridge) all on B1. basic dactylic rhythm 2 1 1
2 1 1.

2. second stage that prolongs the last station of the bow (just before the dead
zone immediately in front of the bridge) and then varies primarily the position
of the left hand microtonally *up* from B1 possibly together with a few
dramatic glissandi of the left hand up from B1 but then quickly back down to
B1.

3. third stage that recapitulates stage 1 exactly but at the lower pitch level
of Bb1 instead of B1.

4. fourth stage that recapitulates stage 2 exactly but at the lower pitch level
of Bb1 instead of B1.

5. fifth stage that returns to the higher pitch level of B1 but then effects a
slow but fantastic descent down string IV from ordinario to just before the
dead zone immediately in front of the fingers of the left hand.

6. sixth stage that moves the fingers of the left hand in very slow increments
from B1 to Bb1 to the end of string IV ultimately revealing the fundamental
pitch of the open string at A1.

7. seventh stage of ascent that moves the bow all the way back up the compass
of string IV from the spot at extreme upper end of the string all the way back
down to the ordinario position of the bow. dynamics and the external-facing
attitude of the player during this part of the flight are probabaly very
special.

8. eighth stage that recapitulates stages 1 and 3 exactly but at the lower
pitch level of A1 and probabaly with a somewhat faster tempo.

9. ninth stage that combines a downward trajectory of the bow (from the topmost
position just before the dead position immediately in front of the bridge down
to ordinario) together with a downward glissando featuring string IV pinched
between the thumb and forefinger of the left hand starting immediately before
the bow (to produce an incredibly high and essentially pitchless glassy noise
tremolo) and then moving all the way down the compass of the string and then
off of the string onto the scroll (to reveal A1 once again as the fundamental
of the string). ninth stage executes this composite glissando a total of three
times (each at different speeds: moderate, faster, very slow). ninth stage (and
thus the entire piece) ends with the point of the bow trapped in tremolo
at the topmost position (just before the dead position immediately in front of
the the bridge) with the thumb and forefinger of the left hand just below and
the bridge just above. the rhythmicized tremolo at the position is trapped for
for several cycles of iteration with each carrying the possibility of a final
downward glissando of the left hand. but the final downward glissando of the
left hand never comes. the bow eventually comes to a rest. then tremolos
momentarily again. then comes to a rest again (with the rest longer in duration
than the tremolo). then tremolo and rest. then tremolo and rest. then tremolo
and rest. then suddenly shorter tremolo-and-rest. and the shorter
tremolo-and-rest once again. then done.

DETAILS

1. flight is in many ways a song of accent types.

2. tremolo dynamics and accent dynamics move independently. how will tremolo
dynamics notate? how will accent dynamics notate?

3. what combinations of tremolo dynamic and accent dynamic appear during
flight? exverse accents appear; no inverse accents appear. regions of quiet,
loud, very quiet, very loud tremolo all appear with accents one or two dynamic
levels above the tremolo dynamic. regions of quiet and very quiet tremolo
appear with accents many dynamic levels above the tremolo dynamic. effects
differ between these two types of superimposed dynamic.

4. rate of tremolo varies during flight. rate of tremolo does not vary much
during flight. moderate; a bit fast, fast, quite fast; a bit relaxed, relaxed,
quite relaxed. this provides an inventory of seven rates of tremolo.

5. are changes of rate of tremolo used permutationally in huitzil? probabaly
not very much. (massed permutational changes of rate of tremolo between
multiple strings will be effective in al-kitab al-khamr.) might be interesting
to have a moment in flight where an accent appears and then immediately slows
(or increases) the rate of tremolo for the duration of only a single note
before a subsequent accent appears and returns the rate fo tremolo to what it
was before. questions then arise as to what should be the relation between the
subito change in rate (whether up or down) and any corresponding subito change
in dynamic. an example follows as one possibility.

(*) consider a tremolo moderato played piano; a first forte accent subito
changes the rate of tremolo to very fast and the tremolo dynamic to ppp
(probabaly all played alla punta); a second forte accent accent then subito
returns the rate of tremolo to moderato and the tremolo dynamic to piano. the
effect is to start with one type of tremolo (moderato piano) and then open a
momentary window to another type of tremolo (presto pianississimo). (the start-
and stop-accents are the same because varying the start- and stop-accents
produces an unintended type of confusion). the window can then be used
syntactically. the window can be opened alteranately after third accent all in
a series of equal durations. the window can be opened alternately for shorter
durations than those of the main progression of accented notes. the window can
be opened intermittently between the main progression of accented notes.
perhaps most interestingly the predominant context can subito shift to the
material of the window. this inverts two types of material.

6. literatal accelerandi and ritardandi appear. literal accelerandi and
ritardandi effect rate of tremolo and accent frequency at the same time.

7. composite rate changes also appear. first type of composite rate change
holds rate of tremolo constant while changing accent frequency; this type of
"accent frequency transition" can probabaly be effected by hand with
increasingly changed durations notated together with a textual indication to
hold rate of tremolo constant. 

8. eight types of type monad appear in flight. 3:2, 4:3, 5:3, 5:4 diminutions
appear. 2:3, 3:4, 3:5, 4:5 augmentations appear.