1. the three voices of the first half all carry minor tenth ranges. the lowest
voice spans [B1, D3]; the middle voice spans [F2, Ab3]; and the upper voice
spans [B2, D4].

2. the rhythmic characterization of the three voices of the first half is such
that the lowest voice carries the notes with by far the longest durations; the
upper voice carries notes that are moderately long; and the middle voice
carries notes that stream together sometimes rather more quickly.

3. there are characteristic regions of interaction between the three voices of
the first half. there is a region of interplay between the outer voices (with
the lower voice sounding notes of considerable duration and the upper voice
sounding notes that move marginally more quickly); probabaly 1-2 (and sometimes
3) notes per statement in the lower voice and 1-3 (and sometimes 4-5) notes per
statement in the upper voice when the lower and upper voices truly
interplay. there's a region of interplay between the upper two voices (with the
middle voice sounding streams of notes and the upper voice interpolating
slower-moving statements); the middle voice has a characteristic animation
of 2-4 faster-moving notes followed by 2-4 slower-moving notes; the upper voice
continues to sound 1-3 (and sometimes 4-5) notes per statement. there's a
region of interplay between the lower two voices with the same profiles of
animation as given above. and there's at least one region of interplay between
all three voices.

4. what is the order of regions of interplay between voices in the first half?
(1) middle alone; (2) middle & lower; (3) lower alone; (4) lower & upper; (5)
upper alone; (6) upper & middle; (7) upper, middle & lower; (8) lower & 
middle; (9) lower alone.

5. at what points does the closing material foreshadow? during (3) lower alone,
during (5) upper alone and during (7) upper, middle & lower. (so during
odd-numbered stages.) then the closing material appears in full after (9) lower
alone.

6. what will be the proportions of the nine stages relative to each other?
    1: (1) middle
    1: (2) middle & lower
    1: (3) lower
    1: (4) lower & upper
    1: (5) upper
    1: (6) upper & middle
    1: (7) upper, middle & lower
    1: (8) lower & middle
    2: (9) lower
so relatively even proportion of stages except for stage 9.
